# IS601.NJIT
Collaborating project assignment 1
## Partner names: Ron Munoz & Bill Duggan


This project is intended to educate individuals looking to gain an introduction level of the development of ethernet and computer networking history and principals throught the decades. Hello this is new test

The history and design of the technology we’ve come to know as the World Wide web is important to understand for any individual looking to work in the technology space.

The internet is made up of independently operated network companies acting without ownership and available to the public, as designed from inception by Sir Tim Berners Lee. The evolution of this network has been revolutionary; marking its place in the pantheon of historical monuments such as the automobile and sliced bread.
	Computer’s ship binary information, known as “bits,” back and forth in a series of 1’s and 0’s. These can be relayed and transmitted in a few forms pending bandwidth and connectivity. Wireless connectivity uses radio wave to transmit data. Ethernet wires send bits far and wide but “light” is by far the most effective use for transmitting data known as “fiber optics.”
	Each computer has its own unique IP address, currently over I4 protocol. Internet Protocol allows one computer to physically communicate to another computer using 32 bits. IP Protocol was created in 1973 by Vinton Cerf and Bob Kahn. However, the telecommunications infrastructure has taken quite the journey along time.
	Computers in the late 50’s early 60s were rare massive machines solely for the use of scientists and government agencies. President Dwight D. Eisenhower created ARPA (Advanced Research Project Agency) in response to the soviets “Suptnik” rocket in 1957. Nothing has impacted life more rapidly as a result of what would follow. 
	

&emsp; Furthermore, due to growing fears during war where phone communication networks failed, President John F Kennedy promised a space program to beat the Soviets to the moon and NASA was formed. MIT grad Leonard Kleinrock began Q theory for data transmission. Q developed as simple structure to evaluate overall speed of network and resource sharing, or distributed control. “Hot Potato routing” was developed and formed to chop data up into pieces to send and receive. Therefore, if the network failed, not all data integrity was lossed. Packets (and bits) were routed so that no one dedicated pair would be available while sending nodes of information. Each node sent from sender to receipient were conducted and copied. Packet switching proved more reliable than telephone “dedicated” networks as they were more reliable during network failures.
In 1969, during which Apollo lands on the moon, Bob Taylor just happens to create the first computer network. Many uncertainties around this time demanded focus to shift towards resource and file sharing. The government granted Bob taylor 1 million usd to develop his theory of shared information, and a call for heterogenous computers to be added on the network. Lawrence Roberts builds the first connecting network capable of distributing information from one computer to multiple computers, or time shared computers.
In the 1970s, the “Lunar Module” was the height of technology. Modern day laptops held more power then the rocket at that time. Typewriters, radios, black and white Tv’s were all more popular, and nobody trusted computer capabilities. Lawrence Roberts went on to raise more money so that he can continue developing an Interface Message Protocol (IMPs). BBM’s Frank Heart, ultimately had to build packet switching communication system under very challenging circumstances and deadlines. In 1969, the first piece of hardware arrived at UCLA. 4 main sites were the entire network able to communicate at that time. In April 1971, Robert Metcalf (“Ethernet” inventor) initiated ARPAnet with 18 main frame computers on the network. LANs (Local Area Netwok) and WANs (Wide Area Networks) were shortly established.

1973, Vinton Cerf and Bob Kahn establish TCP/IP protocol for sending and receiving data. This enable messages to be passed back and forth from sender to recipient. TCP/IP enabled network to interconnect over “The Gateway” protocol. Common network of interconnected networks were found but not yet available to the public.

In 1989, Sir Tim Berners Lee fascinates with the World Wide Web. Berners Lee develops software to store information, created and allows file transfer via email. In June of 1992, the US government release the internet to the public for commercial and personal use. However, the internet was still considered rough and hard to navigate. In 1993, Marc Andreessen breaks through with browser application for a more user friendly experience, Mosaic. Free enterprise explodes and the internet grew by 143,000% as the online community expands around the globe.
From obscurity to ubiquity, the internet rapidly affects the world. 1975 Harvard drop-out “Bill Gates” already had established MSN by 1993. This can be the known as the dawn of “The internet war,” as Jim Clark invests in Andreessen and company to develop Netscape, Microsoft’s first competitor. After being publicly humiliated, Microsoft develops Internet Explorer in 1995. Shortly after, IE 4.0 was offered free of charge to customers in Microsoft’s software package bundle. IBM, LOTUS, NOVEL and NETSCAPE were all dominated by Bill Gates and his extensive supply of elite developers and programmers. However, in 1998, the US Department of Justice, and lead by Gary Reback, launch Anti-trust lawsuit against Gates forcing him to step down as CEO.
Meanwhile, 1995 also marked the beginning of “The browser wars.” Yahoo founders, Jerry Land and David Filo create a more user friendly directory to navigate the WWW as undergrads attending Stanford. What was originally created to search for fantasy basketball information, spawned the birth of search engines on the internet. Excite and Google were to follow suit. Joe Kraus (Excite co-founder), Graham Spencer (Excite co-founder), Larry Page (Google co-founder) and (Sergey Brin (Google co-founder) all saw the potential created by Yahoo. As Yahoo’s focus became more advertisement focused, google and Excite were more concerned with functionality and raw data; which also created a portal war. Google relied more heavily on link counting and provided more in depth approaches to web page searching. 

 Coinciding, Jeff Bezos (Amazon founder) and Pierre Omidyar (Ebay founder) were both starting personal business ventures. The growth of internet users were hard to ignore. What took the radio 38 years to reach 50 million users, took the internet 4 years to accomplish. Moors and Metcalf laws allowed exponential growth for a more useful and powerful network. However, with this growth came vulnerabilities in cyber security. Confidential information being shared needed more secure protection. Public and Private Key Cryptography was created as the lynch pin of public e-commerce.
As the world was rapidly evolving, the communication uprising took place. Media companies and the titans of television no longer controlled the distribution flow. Chad Hurley (Founder of YouTube) and Sean Phanning (Founder of Napster) took the internet to another level. Record labels, shops and artists soon discovered that sharing and downloading media would disturb the entertainment industry. Copyright infringements followed as artists like “Dr. Dre and Metallica” were opposed to the free content readily available. Mark Zuckerberg (Facebook funder), Chris DeWolf and Tom Anderson (MySpace founders) would launch into its own WEB 2.0 war.

IPv4 (which has 32 bit code) is now undergoing an upgrade to IPv6. This will be 126 bit code that may allow for more than 4 billion users to access the internet. Protocols in place today may not be there in the near future. As demand for information becomes more necessary, security will become more paramount. DNS servers already are searching through millions of identifiers to lookup IP addresses and distribute accordingly. Our infrastructure and bandwidth will need to be maintained to accommodate for our growth in society, or face harder challenges ahead  
Growing up in the heart of this, it has been fascinating to see how fast we have developed and created using the internet. While there is still no ownership or clear direction, users are still provided with equal opportunity to access information, share and store data freely. As our network continues to grow, the possibilities and opportunities, presently, are endless. 

